[docs][clusters] Improve instructions for GPU autodetection and manual cluster launching (#43219)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/vms/user-guides/launching-clusters/on-premises.md

This document describes how to set up an on-premise Ray cluster, i.e., to run Ray on bare metal machines, or in a private cloud. We provide two ways to start an on-premise cluster.

* If you know all of the nodes in advance and have SSH access to them, use the Ray [cluster launcher](manual-cluster-launcher).
* Otherwise, you can [manually set up](manual-setup-cluster) the Ray cluster by installing the Ray package and starting the Ray processes on each node.

(manual-cluster-launcher)=

## Using Ray cluster launcher

> The Ray cluster launcher is part of the `ray` command line tool. It allows you to start, stop and attach to a running ray cluster using commands such as  `ray up`, `ray down` and `ray attach`. You can use pip to install it, or follow [install ray](installation) for more detailed instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ray cluster launcher is part of the `ray` command line tool. It allows you to start, stop and attach to a running Ray cluster using commands such as  `ray up`, `ray down` and `ray attach`. You can use pip to install it, or follow [install ray](installation) for more detailed instructions.
```

# out the command that can be used to SSH into the cluster head node.
ray up example-full.yaml

# Get a remote screen on the head node.
ray attach example-full.yaml

# Check the cluster status and make sure you eventually see all nodes join.
ray status example-full.yaml

# ...Try running a simple Ray program...
python -c "import ray; ray.init(); print(ray.available_resources())"

# Tear down the cluster.
ray down example-full.yaml
```

Congratulations, you have started a local Ray cluster!

Check out [job submission](jobs-quickstart) next for instructions on running Ray applications on the cluster from your laptop.

### Troubleshooting: Head node launches but worker nodes do not

This can happen if the head node cannot SSH into the worker nodes and/or the head and worker nodes cannot connect to each other's ports.

In this case, after running ``ray up example-full.yaml`` attach to the head node and check that you can SSH into the worker node using the following commands:

```bash
# Get a remote screen on the head node.
ray attach example-full.yaml

# Check that you can SSH from the head node to the worker node.
ssh -i ~/ray_bootstrap_key.pem <worker node IP>
```

> To check that ports are accessible, use a tool like ``telnet <ip> <port>``. The ports to check are:

Reviewer 2: Non-blocker: This is great! I think we can probably also add a common pitfalls or something and suggest user to check the security group with their nodes to ensure the inbound port are setup correctly :)

Author: Good idea, thanks!

This document describes how to set up an on-premise Ray cluster, i.e., to run Ray on bare metal machines, or in a private cloud. We provide two ways to start an on-premise cluster.

* If you know all of the nodes in advance and have SSH access to them, use the Ray [cluster launcher](manual-cluster-launcher).
* Otherwise, you can [manually set up](manual-setup-cluster) the Ray cluster by installing the Ray package and starting the Ray processes on each node.

(manual-cluster-launcher)=

## Using Ray cluster launcher

> The Ray cluster launcher is part of the `ray` command line tool. It allows you to start, stop and attach to a running Ray cluster using commands such as  `ray up`, `ray down` and `ray attach`. You can use pip to install it, or follow [install ray](installation) for more detailed instructions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Ray cluster launcher is part of the `ray` command line tool. It allows you to start, stop, and attach to a running Ray cluster using commands such as  `ray up`, `ray down` and `ray attach`. You can use pip to install it, or follow [install ray](installation) for more detailed instructions.
```

```bash
# install ray
pip install "ray[default]"
```

### Start Ray with the Ray cluster launcher

> The provided [example-full.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml) cluster config file will create a Ray cluster given a list of nodes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The provided [example-full.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/tree/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml) cluster config file creates a Ray cluster given a list of nodes.
```

> Note that you'll need to fill in your [head_ip](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L20), a list of [worker_ips](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L26), and the [ssh_user](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L34) field in those templates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that you need to fill in your [head_ip](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L20), a list of [worker_ips](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L26), and the [ssh_user](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/eacc763c84d47c9c5b86b26a32fd62c685be84e6/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml#L34) field in those templates
```

Test that it works by running the following commands from your local machine:

```bash

> # Download the example-full.yaml

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Download the `example-full.yaml`.
```

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/ray/master/python/ray/autoscaler/local/example-full.yaml

# Update the example-full.yaml to update head_ip, worker_ips, and ssh_user.
# vi example-full.yaml

> # Create or update the cluster. When the command finishes, it will print

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Create or update the cluster. When the command finishes, it prints
```

> # out the command that can be used to SSH into the cluster head node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# out the command that you can use to SSH into the cluster head node.
```

ray up example-full.yaml

# Get a remote screen on the head node.
ray attach example-full.yaml

# Check the cluster status and make sure you eventually see all nodes join.
ray status example-full.yaml

# ...Try running a simple Ray program...
python -c "import ray; ray.init(); print(ray.available_resources())"

# Tear down the cluster.
ray down example-full.yaml
```

> Congratulations, you have started a local Ray cluster!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You have successfully started a local Ray cluster.
```

Check out [job submission](jobs-quickstart) next for instructions on running Ray applications on the cluster from your laptop.

> ### Troubleshooting: Head node launches but worker nodes do not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting: Head node launches but worker nodes don't
```

> This can happen if the head node cannot SSH into the worker nodes and/or the head and worker nodes cannot connect to each other's ports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This situation can happen if the head node can't SSH into the worker nodes or the head and worker nodes can't connect to each other's ports.
```

In this case, after running ``ray up example-full.yaml`` attach to the head node and check that you can SSH into the worker node using the following commands:

```bash
# Get a remote screen on the head node.
ray attach example-full.yaml

# Check that you can SSH from the head node to the worker node.
ssh -i ~/ray_bootstrap_key.pem <worker node IP>
```

To check that ports are accessible, use a tool like ``telnet <ip> <port>``. The ports to check are:

> - The head node port (6379 by default)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The head node port (6379 by default).
```
